Title: DebConf8 official training started!
Date: 2007-07-16 22:32:56
Tags: 

<p>So, my official training for DebConf8 has just started!</p>

<p>What is this training about? Well, since a couple of weeks ago, I had seen a little Argentinian restaurant two blocks from my place. It is not new to find Argentinian places on the area, specially on La Condesa, where lots of foreigns reside within Mexico City. Argentinians are known in some circles, because they usually take their dogs for walking on Parque España, Parque México and the neighborhoods nearby (not that Mexicans don’t walk dogs, it’s just a bit more stereotyped for Mexicans to put dogs on the roofs of buildings and not taking very good care of them). Anyway, since I live on Roma Sur, which is just crossing Insurgentes avenue away from La Condesa, it is also a crowded neighborhood (which is more like a family-kind area), the nearest Argentinian place was this, Che Charrúa.</p>

<p>I had no idea where I could have a nice cheap lunch, so I headed there. The prices were not nuts, but it wasn’t cheap as eating in the street, of course. Che Charrúa is a small place, they have like five tables inside, and two or three outside on the sidewalk. I ordered a Bahía Blanca meal, which was basically, three empanadas (you could choose between ham and cheese, meat, chicken and corn/cheese), a couple of cups of fresh water and a dessert flan (which name I just can’t remember, but it was Argentinian typical). The Mexican part couldn’t be left aside, that’s why they offer chimichurri or spicy sauce :) Besides, they give jamaica-water (which is some kind of juice of a Mexican flower, which is delicious, DebConfers could probably had some on DC6, I bet you can only find it here). At the end, I ordered a black-chocolate alfajor, which was extremely delicious, but cold, since it was on the fridge.</p>

<p>So, that’s my training: Getting ready for DC8/Argentinian food! After a quick chat with ASCIIGirl, I’ve decided to take this a bit further, I’ll be going to Che Charrúa or other .ar restaurants, at least once every two/three weeks and have something different each time, take pictures of places/dishes, etc. My official Argentinian food training! Who joins the challenge?</p>
