title: "Germany 2006: Get ready, get set..."
date: 2005/12/9 22:04:36
Tags: 
---
If you don&#8217;t like football (real football, the one which you play a ball with your feet), skip it.  The Final Draw for FIFA&#8217;s World Cup Germany 2006 was held tonight at the Messe in Leipzig. This is a very interesting moment towards the event next year for all countries. In spite of US complaints, Mexico was considered head-of-group (thing that also took us by surprise), although we were 2nd on the region (I can&#8217;t understand why we were 2nd since we had the same points as the US and we had more GF, which is the first criteria to undraw a tie). Anyway, it&#8217;s good to be head-of-group since we don&#8217;t get to play in the first round against football potences (such as Brazil, France, Italy, etc.).  <p>  <strong>Group A</strong><br/>   Germany<br/>   Costa Rica<br/>   Poland <br/>   Ecuador  </p>   <p>  <strong>Group B</strong><br/>   England<br/>   Paraguay<br/>   Trinidad and Tobago<br/>   Sweden  </p>   <p>  <strong>Group C</strong><br/>   Argentina<br/>   Côte d&#8217;Ivoire<br/>   Serbia and Montenegro<br/>   Netherlands  </p>   <p>  <strong>Group D</strong><br/>   Mexico<br/>   Iran<br/>   Angola<br/>   Portugal  </p>   <p>  <strong>Group E</strong><br/>   Italy<br/>   Ghana<br/>   United States<br/>   Czech Republic  </p>   <p>  <strong>Group F</strong><br/>   Brazil<br/>   Croatia<br/>   Australia  <br/>   Japan  </p>   <p>  <strong>Group G</strong><br/>   France<br/>   Switzerland<br/>   Korea Republic<br/> Togo  </p>   <p>  <strong>Group H</strong><br/>   Spain<br/>   Ukraine<br/>   Tunisia<br/>   Saudi Arabia </p> <p> Anyway, I think Portugal is not, at all, a small team, and I think, on group D, is the one that we have to pay more attention. Iran qualified as the 3rd out of 4 on the Asian seats, and we cannot minimize them, neither. And Angola qualified as the first of their group on the African zone; they made 21 points, just behind Côte d&#8217;Ivoire. Group D is a hard group, yes it is.</p>
<p>In case Mexico qualifies to the second stage, the 1st and 2nd place of group D would go against 2nd and 1st places (respectively) of group C, where I, personally, fear Argentina :)</p>
<p>Go Mexico! :) </p>  <br/><br/>
