---
title: "On fire alarms"
date: 2006-01-22 18:30:59
tag: 
---
It&#8217;s actually a bit funny to find some differences on the behaviour of people in other countries. I missed <a href="http://paul.luon.net/journal/life/edinburgh/ShortHoliday.html">Paul&#8217;s post</a> about, between other things, fire alarms. It&#8217;s funny how we act ourselves on the office when the fire alarms sounds.<br/><br/> The very first time it actually sounded it was a peaceful and quiet day at the office. I don&#8217;t remember exactly what I was doing since it doesn&#8217;t matter. Suddenly, the alarms started flashing and making a light blink, together with a noisy sound, there it was the fire alarm. What did all of us do? Did we organize ourselves to gather next to the stairs? Did we leave all things and ran outside? Of course not, some of us just raise the sight to see the little thing flashing, saw ourselves like asking: &#8220;What do we have to do?&#8221;, but nobody actually did a shit. The fucking building could be on fire, people could be burning in the 1st floor (we&#8217;re on the 6th) and we don&#8217;t know since we are lazy fucking bastards. Some guy, me, put his earphones back in place and kept on playing frozen bubble, some others kept on calling or whatever.<br/><br/> Hours later we knew the fire alarm was activated because, just as with Paul, some asshole was smoking in the halls. What&#8217;s shocking is how we are not used to do the right thing on emergency cases, we don&#8217;t care, which is a worrying case.<br/><br/> Even more shocking is that the alarm has been activated like 5 times a week since then and nobody in the building has done anything, when a real fire catches the building, hopefully never, the alarm will be activated, we will ignore it and we all gonna die in fire. This is so different than in Europe.<br/><br/>BTW: Stop titling your mails or blog posts as &#8220;For those who care about&#8230;&#8221; is now boring.<br/><br/><br/><br/>
